W-14934199 Added simplification guide (#105)
mulesoft/docs-accelerators: accelerators-home/modules/ROOT/pages/simplifying-assets.adoc

= Considerations for Simplifying Accelerator Assets

> MuleSoft Accelerators were designed following an API-led approach to connectivity, which promotes a clean separation of application, process, and system integration layers while enabling a high level of reusability - particularly with System APIs. While this powerful approach remains valid today, and is highly recommended for organizations of all sizes to enable future growth while minimizing maintenance costs, there are some considerations that need to be taken into account for customers who want to simplify their integrations and architectural approach. 

Reviewer: To avoid the passive voice/past tense and extra words, suggest something like:

MuleSoft Accelerators follow an API-led approach to connectivity, which promotes a clean separation of application, process, and system integration layers while enabling a high level of reusability, particularly with System APIs. While this powerful approach remains valid and recommended for organizations of all sizes to enable future growth while minimizing maintenance costs, consider the following guidelines to simplify your integrations and architectural approach.

Reviewer: Did you run this through vale? The sentence length and passive voice should be caught by vale, I think.

== Simplifying Accelerator Assets

> A consistent driving factor behind the design and implementation of use cases supported by the MuleSoft Accelerators has always been to keep the assets and corresponding solutions as simple as possible while still providing a solid, functional, and maintainable architecture for customers to build upon. This has been achieved through the following key solution design principles:

Reviewer: This feels sort of market-y to me. Is there a way to streamline and simplify the text?

Reviewer: Re: "This" as the subject - see the [Style Ref](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22it,%22%22this,%22%22these%22).

Reviewer: Typically, we try to avoid "customer" (and "user") - instead address the reader directly.

Reviewer: This doesn't make sense to me: The design and implementation of use cases?

Reviewer: Actually, I'm wondering if this even needs to be said. What is it that you want to convey to the user? What do THEY need to do their jobs?

The bullet list below seems to be about how MuleSoft Accelerators are designed.

Reviewer 2: I agree that it may not be needed because it doesn't provide actionable info. I'll check with the doc author to see if he is okay with removing it. I didn't make the suggestion from Vale in this section in case we're getting rid of it.

* Keep exception handling clean and simple, allowing for straightforward extension and customization. 
* Avoid the use of heavy logging, monitoring, or exception handling frameworks.
* Leverage a reusable canonical data model within the business process layer to simplify communication between layers.
* Use messaging only where deemed necessary to support high-volume deployments.
* Use inline sub-flows instead of top-level flows wherever possible.

The assets being developed for the MuleSoft Accelerators were also intended to be flexible and extensible, supporting not only the use cases that have been solutioned but also other use cases needed by customers to support their business. Additional endpoints have been included in some APIs, especially System APIs shared across multiple use cases, which may not be required in all customer deployments. The reference architectures for most solutions have also been designed for long-term growth and evolution, which sometimes results in additional apps and interactions that are not always required for smaller deployments. 

> The following sections describe steps you can take to reduce the number of flows in accelerator apps.

Reviewer: Consider putting the user value first.

To reduce the number of flows....

=== Remove Unused APIkit Handlers

> Remove scaffolded flows from the main router flow file in APIkit, which is usually the `*-api.xml` file. Leave the API specification unchanged instead of rescaffolding, because you always edit the file manually to remove the scaffolded flows. Avoid circumventing the APIkit router with a plain choice router, because that makes the router less discoverable and increases maintenance costs.

Reviewer: Consider making this a bullet list for scannability. Each sentence is a nice imperative.

Also, remove the flow for the APIkit console.

=== Remove API Health Checks

> The `get:/ping` endpoint periodically monitors the health status of deployed APIs. Remove the handlers for these endpoints from the main APIkit flow file if monitoring is not needed. If you keep the endpoints, remove the checks for downstream dependencies to reduce messages and throughput.

Reviewer: Consider "If you don't need to monitor..."

=== Generalize Event Sources

> Instead of creating monolithic flows that listen to generic events, combine event sources into more granular events. For example, there are general events for publishing and consuming updates to Parties, such as Individual and Household, and to Party Roles, such as Customer and Supplier. By combining the update queues, you bind them to both Exchanges and a single handler consumes them. You receive the same number of messages but with fewer flow event sources.

Reviewer: Avoid "there are" construction. See [Style Ref](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22thereis%22and%22thereare%22atthebeginningofasentence).

> Take the same approach for VMQueue subscribers, SFTP listeners, and others.

Reviewer: "and others" makes me wonder which.

Suggest "Take the same approach for other <thingies> (events?), such as..."

=== Reduce the Number of APIs

> Backend systems like Salesforce have a modern API and have limited mapping between a canonical model and the backend model. To reduce the number of message flows, consider making calls directly to the target system from the Process layer instead of through a dedicated System API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Backend systems like Salesforce have a modern API and limited mapping between a canonical model and the backend model. To reduce the number of message flows, consider making calls directly to the target system from the Process layer instead of through a dedicated System API.
```

> The use cases for Experience APIs provide data transformation, authentication mediation, and service filtering for external consumers. If API Manager governs the target APIs, then an Experience API is not needed for internal systems aligned to the same data, authentication, and services as the Process or System APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The use cases for Experience APIs provide data transformation, authentication mediation, and service filtering for external consumers. If API Manager governs the target APIs, you don't need an Experience API for internal systems aligned to the same data, authentication, and services as the Process or System APIs.
```

When providing similar functionality to external apps via Experience APIs, find opportunities to provide a single Experience API to support multiple channels, rather than one Experience API per channel. For example, combine multiple Salesforce Experience APIs to reduce the number of message flows and apps.

Provide shared functionality via Mule libraries instead of standalone APIs, such as when an Account or Order lookup from Salesforce is required by multiple apps in the Process layer. To reduce flows and message count, implement the shared functionality in one or more subflows, package it into a Mule library, and include it with the Process APIs.

== Additional Simplifications

> The following sections provide additional steps to simplify your integrations by reducing the number of Mule messages and throughput.

Reviewer: To simplify...

=== Reduce Mule Messages

> Receiving an event from an event source, including incoming API requests, produces Mule messages. To consume fewer messages when handling a top level event, reduce the number of API to API calls, such as Experience API to Process API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Receiving an event from an event source, including incoming API requests, produces Mule messages. To consume fewer messages when handling a top-level event, reduce the number of API to API calls, such as Experience API to Process API.
```

> The accelerator solutions also avoid making unnecessary hops, such as an Experience API calling a System API directly when no intermediate transformation, validation, or aggregation is required. The solutions avoid introducing an intermediate Process API that acts as a passthrough hop. To optimize the solutions further:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The accelerator solutions also avoid making unnecessary hops, such as an Experience API calling a System API directly when no intermediate transformation, validation, or aggregation is required. The solutions avoid introducing an intermediate Process API that acts as a passthrough hop.

To optimize the solutions further:
```

* Make calls to backend systems directly from Process APIs that have a straightforward interface for the target system.

> * If you enable the `checkDependencies` flag, remove the flows for health checks that check downstream system health.

Reviewer: Is there any way to make these bullets parallel?

* If you use low volume deployments and synchronous processing, replace VMQueue or Anypoint MQ messaging.
* Update endpoints to accept arrays of objects instead of single items when performing request batching.

=== Reduce Data Throughput

Some of the simplification steps described previously also reduce data throughput. When considering custom frameworks, such as for logging or exception handling, take data throughput into account for your deployments.

== See Also

> * xref:getting-started.adoc[Getting Started]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:getting-started.adoc[]
```

Reviewer: Suggest removing the hard-coded link text in these xrefs.

= Considerations for Simplifying Accelerator Assets

> MuleSoft Accelerators follow an API led approach to connectivity, which separates app, process, and system integration layers while enabling a high level of reusability, particularly with System APIs. The low maintenance costs and ability to enable future growth make this process highly recommended. However, if you want a less complex approach, follow this guidance to simplify your integrations and architecture. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft Accelerators follow an API-led approach to connectivity, which separates app, process, and system integration layers while enabling a high level of reusability, particularly with System APIs. The low maintenance costs and ability to enable future growth make this process highly recommended. However, if you want a less complex approach, follow this guidance to simplify your integrations and architecture. 
```

== Simplify Accelerator Assets

> Keeping the assets and corresponding solutions as simple as possible drives the design and implementation of use cases supported by the MuleSoft Accelerators. Providing a solid, functional, and maintainable architecture for customers to build upon also contributes. The following key principles demonstrate the philosophy behind the solution design:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keeping the assets and corresponding solutions as simple as possible drives the design and implementation of use cases supported by the MuleSoft Accelerators. Providing a solid, functional, and maintainable architecture for customers to build upon also contributes.
+
The following key principles demonstrate the philosophy behind the solution design:
```

> * Follow the API led connectivity approach but create APIs only where necessary to support clean integration with external apps and systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Follows the API-led connectivity approach but creates APIs only where necessary to support clean integration with external apps and systems.
```

> * Keep exception handling clean and simple, allowing for straightforward extension and customization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Keeps exception handling clean and simple, allowing for straightforward extension and customization. 
```

> * Avoid the use of heavy logging, monitoring, or exception handling frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoids using heavy logging, monitoring, or exception-handling frameworks.
```

> * Leverage a reusable canonical data model within the business process layer to simplify communication between layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Leverages a reusable canonical data model within the business process layer to simplify communication between layers.
```

> * Use messaging only where necessary to support high volume deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Uses messaging only where necessary to support high-volume deployments.
```

> * Use inline subflows instead of top-level flows where possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Uses inline subflows instead of top-level flows where possible.
```

> The assets developed for the MuleSoft Accelerators were also intended to be flexible and extensible, supporting not only the use cases that have been built but also other use cases needed by customers to support their business. Some APIs include additional endpoints, especially System APIs shared across multiple use cases, but not all customer deployments require the additional endpoints. The reference architectures for most solutions have also been designed for long-term growth and evolution, which sometimes results in additional apps and interactions that are not always required for smaller deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The assets developed for the MuleSoft Accelerators are flexible and extensible, supporting existing use cases and other use cases that customers need to support their business. Some APIs include additional endpoints, especially System APIs shared across multiple use cases. Not all customer deployments require the additional endpoints. The reference architectures for most solutions support long-term growth and evolution, which can result in additional apps and interactions that are not always required for smaller deployments. 
```

= Considerations for Simplifying Accelerator Assets

MuleSoft Accelerators follow an API-led approach to connectivity, which separates app, process, and system integration layers while enabling a high level of reusability, particularly with System APIs. The low maintenance costs and ability to enable future growth make this process highly recommended. However, if you want a less complex approach, follow this guidance to simplify your integrations and architecture. 

== Simplify Accelerator Assets

> Keeping the assets and corresponding solutions as simple as possible drives the design and implementation of use cases supported by the MuleSoft Accelerators. Providing a solid, functional, and maintainable architecture for customers to build upon also contributes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keeping the assets and corresponding solutions as simple as possible drives the design and implementation of use cases supported by the MuleSoft Accelerators, as well as providing a solid, functional, and maintainable architecture for customers to build upon.
```

Reviewer 3: That sentence needs to be simplified. haha This is a suggestion. Take or leave.

Author: How about this? Keeping the assets and corresponding solutions as simple as possible drives the design and implementation of use cases supported by the MuleSoft Accelerators while also providing solid, functional, and maintainable architectures for customers to build upon.

Reviewer 3: Looks great @kckane-mulesoft

> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

The use cases for Experience APIs provide data transformation, authentication mediation, and service filtering for external consumers. If API Manager governs the target APIs, you don't need an Experience API for internal systems aligned to the same data, authentication, and services as the Process or System APIs.

When providing similar functionality to external apps via Experience APIs, find opportunities to provide a single Experience API to support multiple channels, rather than one Experience API per channel. For example, combine multiple Salesforce Experience APIs to reduce the number of message flows and apps.

Provide shared functionality via Mule libraries instead of standalone APIs, such as when an Account or Order lookup from Salesforce is required by multiple apps in the Process layer. To reduce flows and message count, implement the shared functionality in one or more subflows, package it into a Mule library, and include it with the Process APIs.

== Additional Simplifications

To simplify your integrations, reduce the number of Mule messages and throughput.

=== Reduce Mule Messages

> Receiving an event from an event source, including incoming API requests, produces Mule messages. To consume fewer messages when handling a top-level event, reduce the number of API to API calls, such as Experience API to Process API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Receiving an event from an event source, including incoming API requests, produces Mule messages. To consume fewer messages when handling a top-level event, reduce the number of API-to-API calls, such as Experience API to Process API.
```
